#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass IEEEtran
\begin_preamble
\input{tex/preamble.tex}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman palatino
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks true
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref page
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\use_refstyle 0
\branch report
\selected 0
\filename_suffix 0
\color #000000
\end_branch
\branch conf
\selected 0
\filename_suffix 0
\color #000000
\end_branch
\branch AC
\selected 1
\filename_suffix 0
\color #682743
\end_branch
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Summary (1 page)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
The summary (max.
 1 page) should characterise the application and place the planned project
 in a wider scientific context.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The last 10 years have seen much progress in autonomous robotics.
 The key enabler to autonomy were advances in robotic sensing hardware and
 the corresponding new techniques for dealing with the sensors data.
 For example, the introduction of the laser range finder as a standard robotic
 sensor allowed for the first time to have very reliable localization and
 mapping, through the introduction of the probabilistic/Bayesian paradigm
 (Markov localization, particle filters, etc.).
 Those simultaneous advances in sensors and theory enabled autonomous exploratio
n of large scale environments and ultimately the feasibility of applications
 such as autonomous cars.
 Currently a large amount of research is devoted to monocular vision, which
 will be the key technology in the next 5 years, especially for micro aerial
 vehicles, whose limitations in payload and the outdoors operations prevent
 using clunky and power-hungry sensors like range-finders.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But, looking farther in the future, what will be the sensor modality of
 the future, and what theoretical paradigm needs to change to take advantage
 of it? Our view is that 
\emph on
dynamic
\emph default
 
\emph on
sensors
\emph default
 in the style of the DVS camera are the most likely answer.
 The reasoning is simple: the performance of autonomous robots, measured
 by agility, in tasks such as exploration mainly depends on the accuracy
 of perception.
 In particular, in a sense-plan-act architecture what matters is the latency
 of the pipeline.
 The latency depends on the frequency of the sensor data, plus the time
 it takes to process the data.
 It is typical in current robots to have latencies of 200ms or more.
 This puts a hard bound on the agility of the platform.
 A DVS camera virtually eliminates the latency: data is transmitted using
 events that have latency in the order of few microseconds.
 However, this incremental information is completely different than the
 data we have now from traditional sensors, so that a new paradigm is needed
 to deal with this data.
 Moreover, the sensors that so far have been designed for general purpose
 use must be adapted to the case of robotics.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This transcontinental interdisciplinary collaborative project is dedicated
 to paving the way for widespread use of dynamic sensors in the field of
 robotics, from both the theoretical and the practical point of view.
 The three partners provide a unique set of competencies.
 The Institute of Neuroinformatics (Dr.
 Delbruck) is a leader in the design and production of neuromorphic dynamic
 vision sensors.
 University of Zurich (Prof.
 Scaramuzza) is a leader in perception and control for micro-aerial vehicles,
 which are the reference platform for the project.
 Caltech (Dr.
 Censi) brings the competencies for dealing with low-level sensorimotor
 data and for designing control architectures.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This project is particularly well suited to Sinergia because it is the only
 institutional source of funding that allows transcontinental collaborations
 with US partners.
 Moreover, Prof.
 Scaramuzza and Dr.
 Censi are young scientists at the beginning of the research career.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Research plan
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
The research plan must not exceed 10 pages and 40,000 characters (with spaces),
 illustrations, formulae, tables and bibliographies included.
 A minimum of point 10 font size and 1.5 line spacing must be used.
 In general, the research plan should not contain any annexed documents.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Current state of research in the field
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Making reference to the most important publications, particularly by other
 authors, please explain: - which previous insights provided the starting
 point and basis for the planned studies; - in which areas research is needed,
 and why; - which important, relevant research projects are currently underway
 in Switzerland and abroad.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Current state of your own research
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For a new application, please present the research work that the various
 (co-)applicants have already undertaken in the relevant field or in related
 fields and mention the corresponding publications.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Research plan of the entire project
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Based on the information provided under 2.1 and 2.2, please indicate: - the
 benefits expected from a co-operative approach (as a net- work); - the
 concrete overall goals that you expect to achieve in the course of the
 project; 2.3 - the scientific approach (combination of different methods,
 tech- niques, etc.) to be used in addressing the overall goals of the project.
 If the submitted project is declared as interdisciplinary, you must explain
 on approx.
 one page what this interdisciplinarity consists of, why it is essential
 and how it will be taken into consideration when the research plan is implement
ed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Organization of the collaboration
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Please answer the following questions: What scientific contribution is each
 of the sub-projects expected to make? How will the research work be structured
 as regards content and schedule? Which specific measures will be taken
 to enhance interaction (joint development of concept, continual exchange
 of knowledge, etc.) and to integrate results.
 Please specify the time and the means you will devote to this end? How
 will the collaboration of different groups in a network promote the education
 of young scientists (postdocs and doctoral candidates)?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Relevance and impact
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Please describe the impacts you expect your research in the proposed project
 to have for the discipline and for science as a whole (research and education/t
eaching).
 In addition, please mention the form in which you wish to make your research
 results public (arti- cles in science journals, monographs, conference
 proceedings etc).
 If applicable, please indicate whether and to what extent the proposed
 project will have a broader impact and what this impact will be.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Subproject 1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Please compile a research plan for each of the sub-projects involved.
 The research plan of a sub-project must not exceed 10 pages and 40,000
 characters (with spaces), illustrations, formulae, tables and bibliographies
 included.
 A minimum of point 10 font size and 1.5 line spacing must be used.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Interactions with the overall project
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Please explain how this sub-project is linked to the other sub- projects
 and to the overall project.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Detailed research plan
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Please specify the approach you are taking and the concrete objec- tives
 that you aim to achieve in the period of funding.
 The following points should be addressed: - Concrete goals that you expect
 to achieve in the course of the sub-project; - Studies or experiments needed
 and/or envisaged to reach the set goals; - Methods by which the research
 goals are to be reached; - Data situation / collection of data.
 Please do not repeat information already mentioned under 2.3.
 Item 3.3 should only contain information on a sub-project, whereas item
 2.3 concerns the entire project.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Schedule and milestones
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As far as this is possible, please compile a schedule that includes the
 different phases of the sub-project and the most important in- 3.3 terim
 goals.
 This plan should also indicate the main tasks with which the persons funded
 by the SNSF are to be entrusted (doctoral can- didates, postdocs).
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
